content/docs/_index.en.md, before:

---
linkTitle: "Documentation"
title: "Introduction"
cascade:
  type: docs
toc: false
---

Welcome to the documentation section! Here you'll find guides, tutorials, and references about the tools, services, and self-hosted applications I use.

## Getting Started

- [Introduction to Homebrew and Installation](introduction-homebrew/) - Learn how to install and use the popular package manager for macOS and Linux
- [Installing Proxmox VE 9](proxmox-installation/) - Complete step-by-step guide to install Proxmox Virtual Environment 9
- [Proxmox VE Post-Installation Setup](proxmox-post-installation/) - Essential configuration steps after installing Proxmox VE 9
- [TrueNAS SCALE 25.10 Post-Installation](truenas-post-installation/) - How I configure TrueNAS after installation
- [Installing Portainer on TrueNAS with IP Binding](portainer-installation/) - Set up Portainer with dedicated IP address for cleaner homelab management

## What You'll Find Here

This documentation covers:

- **Development Tools**: Package managers, version control, IDEs, and more
- **Self-Hosted Applications**: Guides for deploying and managing your own apps and services using Docker.
- **Installation Guides**: Step-by-step instructions for setting up your development environment
- **Best Practices**: Tips and recommendations for efficient development workflows
- **Troubleshooting**: Common issues and their solutions

{{< callout type="info" >}}
This documentation is continuously updated. If you find any issues or have suggestions for improvement, feel free to reach out! 
{{< /callout >}}

Commit message:

docs: add Nextcloud AIO installation guide to documentation index

content/docs/_index.en.md, after:

---
linkTitle: "Documentation"
title: "Introduction"
cascade:
  type: docs
toc: false
---

Welcome to the documentation section! Here you'll find guides, tutorials, and references about the tools, services, and self-hosted applications I use.

## Getting Started

- [Introduction to Homebrew and Installation](introduction-homebrew/) - Learn how to install and use the popular package manager for macOS and Linux
- [Installing Proxmox VE 9](proxmox-installation/) - Complete step-by-step guide to install Proxmox Virtual Environment 9
- [Proxmox VE Post-Installation Setup](proxmox-post-installation/) - Essential configuration steps after installing Proxmox VE 9
- [TrueNAS SCALE 25.10 Post-Installation](truenas-post-installation/) - How I configure TrueNAS after installation
- [Installing Portainer on TrueNAS with IP Binding](portainer-installation/) - Set up Portainer with dedicated IP address for cleaner homelab management
- [Installing Nextcloud All-in-One on TrueNAS](nextcloud/) - Complete guide to install Nextcloud AIO with Docker, including reverse proxy configuration and security best practices

## What You'll Find Here

This documentation covers:

- **Development Tools**: Package managers, version control, IDEs, and more
- **Self-Hosted Applications**: Guides for deploying and managing your own apps and services using Docker.
- **Installation Guides**: Step-by-step instructions for setting up your development environment
- **Best Practices**: Tips and recommendations for efficient development workflows
- **Troubleshooting**: Common issues and their solutions

{{< callout type="info" >}}
This documentation is continuously updated. If you find any issues or have suggestions for improvement, feel free to reach out! 
{{< /callout >}}
